---
layout: post
title:  "Project 01: The Final One"
due: "Friday, June 12 10:00 am"
sub_name: "multiple uploads"
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

#### Due: {{ page.due }}

#### Submission name: {{ page.sub_name }}
<!--more-->

### Final Project Dates:
* __May 29, 10:00am__
  * [Prototypes](#prototype) required in class while you work. This should be an elaborate explanation of your goals, and picture of how you want things to work. Details below.
* __June 03, 10:00am__
  * HW server Project slot 0 due.
  * If your project contains multiple files, combine them into a single .zip or .tar file (not .rar!).
  * If you are working with a partner, it's easiest for everyone if you both upload the assignment.
* __June 08, 10:00am__
  * HW server Project slot 1 due.
  * If your project contains multiple files, combine them into a single .zip or .tar file (not .rar!).
  * If you are working with a partner, it's easiest for everyone if you both upload the assignment.
* __June 12, 10:00am__
  * Final Project must be done
  * HW server Project slot 2 due.
  * If your project contains multiple files, combine them into a single .zip or .tar file (not .rar!).
  * If your zip file is larger than 10MB due to many images, do not include them in your submission.
  * If you are working with a partner, it's easiest for everyone if you both upload the assignment.
  * Project must be fully functioning and accessible via a web browser.
  * See Below for final working project submission guidelines.


### Documentation and Working Project Submission:
* Everyone must have an html file documenting their project.
  * The file must be at the top level of public_html and named final.html
  * Your documentation will account for 10 points of your total grade.
  * This page must contain the following parts:
    * Name of Project
    * Name(s) and period(s) of authors.
    * Link to the working project
      * This is the link to the html/python file that is the landing page for your project. I will not impose an naming restrictions for those files so that you can build your files as you see fit.
    * Overview of what the project is.
    * Instructions on how to use your project.
    * Description of how the project works.
    * List of all files and a brief description of their purpose.
    * List of resources used, including links for online resources.
    * List of Bugs, Errors or anything else that a user should be aware of when using your project.
      * I am much more sympathetic if you list a bug here than if I find it on my own.
  * Everyone should use the following format for their final.html page: <http://moe.stuy.edu/~dw/final.html>{:target="_blank"}
  * This means use the same tags (i.e. h1 for project name, ul for lists...), in the same order.
  * You may (and should) style this page as you see fit.


### Project Overview
* You (and possibly a partner) are tasked with creating a python program that demonstrates your ability to use the tools covered in class this semester:
  * Using HTML and CSS to present information as a web page.
  * Using data structures in python (lists and dictionaries).
  * Reading files into python programs as data.
  * Using recursion to solve problems.
  * Using python to generate web pages.
  * Using python to process input from the web, including using forms and query strings.
* Final Projects must contain the following pieces:
  * At least one python program file.
  * Substantive usage of lists and/or dictionaries.
  * Reading and/or writing to one or more files through a python program.
  * A webpage that uses HTML and CSS
* Viable Project Ideas:
  * These are just some ideas to get you started, you do not need to pick one of these, but you are welcome to do so.
  * Online form generator
    * Create a simple language for users to generate their own online forms.
    * Example format: Type of question, question text, answer options (if applicable).
    * Your program could either generate the html for the form based on a text file or web form based input.
  * Choose-your-own-adventure generator
    * Similar to the form generator, this would take in (either vie a web form or text file) a choose your own adventure story, broken into pieces with choices that link to other specific sections.
    * Your program would then generate all the webpages to make the story functional.
  * Data Analysis
    * Find some data, read it into your program, process it and display your results as a webpage.
    * This would be similar to Project 00, but I would expect a deeper dive into the data. Also, you could use matplotlib to generate graphs on the fly!
    * You can invest your time and energy in different areas:
      * Data gathering
        * Get multiple pieces of related data (books, songs, player/team sports statistics, etc). Clean the data and allow users to select from different data sets.
      * Data analysis
        * Perform more advanced statistical analysis of the data.
      * Data Presentation/Visualization
        * Show your data in an interesting/novel way.
      * Searchable Database
        * Instead of focusing on analyzing data, create a website that makes it easy to view and search from a large dataset.
  * Here is a fewexamples of high quality projects from previous years: <http://bert.stuy.edu/pbrooks/spring2020/materials/intro-year-2/GreatProjects.html>
    * The bottom 3 were from my class, so they include more documentation than the others, you will be required to do this.

### Project Guidelines:
* Your project should focus on the technologies covered in class.
* This means python, html and css not, for example, javascript.
* Your grade will depend on several factors beyond the actual project:
  * Your prototype/documentation/submissions
  * Consistent work throughout the allotted time. (The procrastination penalty)
  * You should try to get the minimum requirements done early, and play with how your project looks as a last
  * It is ok if someone goes above and beyond, as long as the other partner contributes a substantial amount. It is NOT ok if one partner does most of the work, and the other does very little.


### Prototype:
* Create a single PDF of your prototype and submit it under the **final_prototype** slot on the HW server.
* Page(s) 0-1:
  * Top: Name(s) of all involved, class period, team name, project name
  * Section 0
    * High level description of your project.
    * What is it? Why do you want to make it? How will it work?
  * Section 1
    * Template sketch(es)
    * What will the page(s) look like?
    * You may need to provide multiple sketches to show the full design. Thats ok.
* Page 2-3
  * Sources of information
    * Will you be using data or formulae, if so, where is that coming from?
    * Are you using new python modules? Some kind of API? If so, provide the documentation source for that.
    * Task breakdown
      * Who will be doing what
    * Development stages
      * timeline of features to be added, prioritized by importance and feasibility.
      * It is ok to fall behind schedule.
      * It is OK to modify this.
* NO CODE: Until you hand in the prototype there should be absolutely NO CODE! This is a design process.
* Grade: This will be 20% of your final project grade. It should look like you put serious effort into it.
  * Take time to draw what you want to show.
  * Use a ruler for straight edges! This makes it look much better. (No ruler = you didn't care)
* The purpose of the document is to:
  * Come together with your partner and make a clear picture of what you BOTH want to do.
  * Explicitly describe the behavior of your project so I can tell you if there are potential problems.
  * Make clear expectations public so you have guidelines to follow and don't cut features for no reason.
* Evolving document:
  * You may ADD to it, but do NOT remove old pages.
  * You may mark sections as outdated, and that they are replaced later.
  * The goal is to see the evolution of your project over its creation.
