---
layout: post
title:  "Work 13"
due: "Tuesday 03/06 8:00am"
sub_name: "test2_review"
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

#### Due: {{ page.due }}

#### Submission name: {{ page.sub_name }}
<!--more-->

Write the following functions in a single .py file

* taxiFare
  * A taxi company charges it's users based on how many other people need taxis at the same time in the same area.
  * If there are fewer that 5 people in the same area, then the company charges $1.50 per mile.
  * If there are more than 5 people in the same area, then the company charges $2.50 per mile.
  * Write a function that takes two parameters, the first represents the number of miles needed to go and the second represents the number of other customers nearby.
  * The function should return the total cost of the trip.
  * Examples
    ```
    taxiFare( 8, 3 ) ==> 12.0
    taxiFare( 8, 6 ) ==> 20.0
    ```
* onLine
  * Will test whether a point is on a line
  * Takes 4 parameters, the first representing the slope of the line, the second representing the y-intercept on the line and the last 2 representing the coordinates of the point to test. (remember `y = mx + b`)
  * Returns True if the point is on the line, False otherwise
* isLeapYear
  * Takes a single parameter representing a year.
  * Returns `True` if the year is a leap year, and `False` if it is not
  * The rules for leap year-ness are as follows
    * Years that are divisible by 4 are leap years, except:
    * Years that are divisible by 100 are not leap years except:
    * Years that are divisible by 400 are leap years.
  * Examples
    ```
    isLeapYear(2012) ==> True
    isLeapYear(1900) ==> False
    isLeapYear(2000) ==> True
    isLeapYear(1983) ==> False
    ```
* numDigs
  * Takes 1 parameter representing a nonnegative integer
  * Returns the number of digits in the number
  * Use a `while` loop in your solution
  * Examples:
  ```
  numDigs(0) ==> 1
  numDigs(5) ==> 1
  numDigs(612) ==> 3
  ```
* sumDigs
  * Takes 1 parameter representing a nonnegative integer
  * Returns the sum of digits in the number
  * Use a `while` loop in your solution
  * Examples:
  ```
  sumDigs(0) ==> 0
  sumDigs(5) ==> 5
  sumDigs(612) ==> 9
  ```
