---
layout: post
title:  "Work 10: It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World"
due_45: "Wednesday 3/24 4:00 pm"
due_9: "Thursday 3/25 4:00 pm"
sub_name: "madlibs"
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

#### Due (period 4/5): {{ page.due_45 }}
#### Due (period 9): {{ page.due_9 }}

#### Submission name: {{ page.sub_name }}
<!--more-->

# Python Madlibs!
* For the previous assignment, you had to write a `replace` function. Here is its description again:
  * replace
    * This function will take a string and replace part of it with something new
    * Takes 3 string parameters, The first represents the original string, the second represents the part you want to take out (key), and the last represents the replacement string.
    * Returns a new string that is a copy of the original except that the replacement string is located where the key use to be.
    * If the key is not in the original string, you should return the original, unmodified.
    * Example: `replace("I hate cs!", "hate", "love") ==> "I love cs!"`
* Today you are going to use this function to create a madlibs python program.
  - To start, create a string with some placeholder words that will be replaced.
    - example: `s = "When you're VERB in the WEATHER in PLACE and it's HOLIDAY too."`
    - I just stole this from [Bob Dylan](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=doIMYvZyo_k), you are welcome to steal, or create your own. It also will be more fun if the string is longer than one sentence.
  - Next, you'll need to be able to get input from the Thonny shell into your program. Thankfully, there's a simple function for that:
    - `verb = input("enter a verb: ")`
      - This will print `enter a verb: ` in the shell, and wait for someone to type in a response, then return the input as a string.
      - You should do a simple test of this by putting the following in the top half of Thonny (the editor) then running it:
        ```
        s = intput("tell me something cool: ")
        print(s)
        ```
  - Your madlibs program should...
    - Ask the user for replacement words.
    - Replace those words using yout `replace` function.
    - Print out the completed madlibs.
    - Example trail run:
      ```
      >>> %Run madlibs.py
        Welcome to madlibs!
        verb: eating
        weather: snow
        place: yankee stadium
        holiday: arbor day
        When you're eating in the snow in yankee stadium and it's arbor day too.
      ```
