---
layout: post
title:  "Work 05: Feeling Loopy"
due_45: "Monday 3/8 8:00 am"
due_9: "Tuesday 3/9 8:00 am"
sub_name: "while"
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

#### Due (period 4/5): {{ page.due_45 }}
#### Due (period 9): {{ page.due_9 }}

#### Submission name: {{ page.sub_name }}
<!--more-->

## Important note!
  * You should have some of these functions completed from your classwork.
  * Regardless of how many you completed in class, include all the functions in your hw assignment.
  * For the boolean related functions, do not use anything we have yet to cover in class.

# Write the following functions in python.

- `sumAtoB`
  - Find the sum of all ints from `a` to `b`, inclusive of both a and b.
  - When `a > b`, return `0`.
  - Examples:
    ```
    sumAtoB(0, 1) ==> 1
    sumAtoB(1, 3) ==> 6
    sumAtoB(2, 0) ==> 0
    ```

- `sum4s`
  - Find the sum of all the integer multiples of 4 less than the parameter and greater than 1.
  - Assume the parameter is an integer.
  - Examples:
    ```
    sum4s(10) ==> 12
    sum4s(20) ==> 40
    ```

- `fizzbuzz`
  - Plays the number game [fizzbuzz](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fizz_buzz).
  - Takes a non-negative integer parameter.
  - **Prints out** each consecutive integer form 1 to n (inclusive) except:
    - prints `fizz` if the number is divsible by 3.
    - prints `buzz` if the number is divisible by 5.


- `sum_digs`
  - Returns the sum of the digits of the given parameter.
  - Assume the parameter is a non-negative integer.
  - Examples
    ```
    sum_digs(3) ==> 3
    sum_digs(6732) ==> 18
    ```

- `num_digs`
  - Returns the number of digits of the given parameter.
  - Assume the parameter is a non-negative integer.
  - Examples
    ```
    num_digs(3) ==> 1
    num_digs(6732) ==> 4
    ```

- Challenge!
  - Write a function that takes a non-negative integer as a parameter.
  - The function should return the number of digits in the **binary** representation of the parameter.
  - Examples
    ```
    num_digs_binary(2) ==> 2
    num_digs_binary(10) ==> 4
    ```
