---
layout: post
title:  "Running Python Programs from the Shell"
due: ""
sub_name: ""
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

#### Due: {{ page.due }}

#### Submission name: {{ page.sub_name }}
<!--more-->

Yesterday, you hopefully got your computer set up to run python programs from a shell like so: `$ python file.py`. One last piece of the puzzle needs to be in place before we get working on python web pages, we need to make it so python programs can run on their own, without explictely calling `python`.

1. You MUST follow lesson 24, there are a number of technical points that you need to know about and understand how to deal with. None are incredibly complicated, just a number of small concepts that need to be put together.

2. Use what you've learned to get a simple python file (like the one from yesterday's assignment) to run on it's own on moe. to be clear, you should be able to do this:
  ```
  $ ./hello.py
  Good News Everyone!
  ```

3. This is all you need to do for now. If you want to do this on your own computer, the same exact modifications might not work. Notably, the location of python will probably be different, so you'd have to change the top line of your python file. On windows, this gets a little more complicated since it does not treat paths the same way as linux and mac. I will be making a QAF post about using WSL (Windows Subsystem for Linux) which will essentially create a virtual linux machine on your windows based computer.

There is nothing to submit for this assignment, but next week we'll get websites working, and I'll need to see that you have all of these things in place.
