---
layout: post
title:  "Work 26: Clean up!"
due: "Friday 04/24 10:00am"
sub_name: "dataclean"
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

#### Due: {{ page.due }}

#### Submission name: {{ page.sub_name }}
<!--more-->

Note this is due Friday, not Thursday.

Sometime, data files are "dirty", which in this case means that they are not quickly parseable, a little more work has to be done. Some examples of things that can make data dirty:
  * Not all the values are the same type (i.e. strings where you expect numbers... )
  * Seperator character shows up inside individual data segments (i.e. a , shows up inside a part of a csv but isn't supposed to mark the end of a field)
  * Some data is missing, or the data itself is irregular (i.e. when you split individual lines, they are not all the same size)
  * There is "junk" in your data, stuff you don't want.

You are very likely to run into this problem for the data project, so let's get a little practice in!

Here is some sample data from the SAT results from NYC schools in 2012:
  ```
  DBN,SCHOOL NAME,Num of SAT Test Takers,SAT Critical Reading Avg. Score,SAT Math Avg. Score,SAT Writing Avg. Score
  01M292,HENRY STREET SCHOOL FOR INTERNATIONAL STUDIES,29,355,404,363
  01M539,"NEW EXPLORATIONS INTO SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY AND MATH HIGH SCHOOL",159,522,574,525
  02M392,MANHATTAN BUSINESS ACADEMY,s,s,s,s
  ```
  * The first line of data is fine, there are strings for the DBN and SCHOOL NAME fields, but all the other values are strings.
  * The second line of data contains the field `"NEW EXPLORATIONS INTO SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY AND MATH HIGH SCHOOL"`, which contains the `,` potentially causing us problems if we try to split this line.
    * Also notice that the SCHOOL NAME is put inside `" "`. This is a common practice when the separator character (also known as a delimiter) appears inside a piece of data, allowing you to find and deal with those pesky extra delimiters.
  * The third line of data contains strings instead of numbers for the data fields at the end.

* Write a python program to clean up this data. It should be able to generate a list that looks like this:
  ```
  [['DBN', 'SCHOOL NAME', 'Num of SAT Test Takers', 'SAT Critical Reading Avg. Score', 'SAT Math Avg. Score', 'SAT Writing Avg. Score'],
  ['01M292', 'HENRY STREET SCHOOL FOR INTERNATIONAL STUDIES', 29, 355, 404, 363],
  ['01M539', '"NEW EXPLORATIONS INTO SCIENCE  TECHNOLOGY AND MATH HIGH SCHOOL"', 159, 522, 574, 525],
  ['02M392', 'MANHATTAN BUSINESS ACADEMY', 's', 's', 's', 's']]
  ```
  * Things to note:
    * The headers are all strings.
    * The numeric data elements are ints.
    * The name of the school in the second line of data no longer has any commas in it.
  * Advice
    * Certain things you may want to deal with before you start splitting the data, like the `,` issue.
    * Other things may be easier to handle after splitting, like the number conversion stuff.
    * Some helpful python functions:
      * The string `find` function can take extra arguments to narrow down the search range.
        * `s.find(key, start, end)`: will return the first time `key` appears in `s` between `start` and `end`. This is the same as `s[start:end].find(key)`
      * There is a string function called `isdigit()`. `s.isdigit()` returns:
        * `True` if `s` contains only digit characters.
        * `False` in all other cases.
        * "Digit characters" does not include `-` or `.`, but that is not a problem for this data.

* Once your program works on that test data, try it on the full data set available here: <https://raw.githubusercontent.com/mks22-dw/python/master/2012_SAT_Results.csv>
  * When testing the data set in Thonny, I do not suggest printing out the full list after processing the data. It might crash. You may have better luck looping through the big list a printing out each sublist individually.
