---
layout: post
title:  "Project 00: Big Data, BIGGER Fun!"
due: "Monday, 5/4 10:00am"
sub_name: "data"
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

#### Due: {{ page.due }}

#### Submission name: {{ page.sub_name }}
<!--more-->


#### Logistical Details
* This is a project, you will be given ~2 weeks to complete it.
* This will be graded & counted as a test, with more weight than the labs.
* You _may_ work with one other person on this.

#### Project Overview
* Your task is to find data out in the wild, process it in a python program, and present it using matplotlib.
* Your program should demonstrate why your data is interesting. The graphs should be the main way to present this, but you may also print out explanations if you want.

#### Project Details
* __The Data__
  * Your data should be available from an online source in an easily downloadable format.
    * This means plain text, but also an easily parseable format.
    * For table-like data, this most likely means csv or tsv format.
    * You can also look at regular text from sources like books, articles, tweets etc.
  * If you use a data set that we've worked on in class, then you must combine it with a new data source. We have/will have worked with the following data:
    * NYC population by borough in census years.
    * NYC School SAT scores.
  * You could start by looking at the data soruces being compiled [here](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/e/2PACX-1vQYJ_dshD7ssoyteOnL0SBw0agbdYc58uCFq7zP5XihQpxv-DCojCoRdqM3VVJw3H3t_D3JZRVwX-u5/pubhtml?gid=1434113469&single=true)
    * If you have a cool data source to add, do so [here](https://forms.gle/cgvNwfQpq6kkh39n6)
  * At the beginning of your program, include, as a comment, information about yoru data including a general description and a direct link to the source.

* __The Process__
  * Your python program should be doing the bulk of the data processing.
  * This means you should not clean up the data outside of your code (i.e. using a spreadsheet program like excel or google sheets).
    * If this is a major hurdle, talk to me about it.
  * Your code should create list(s), dictionarie(s) or some combination of both based on the data.
  * If the data contains numbers, they should be stored as such (not as strings).
  * You may want to compute statsitics from the raw data, things like averages, frequencies, medians etc.

* __The Graphs__
  * Use matplotlib to generate at least 2 graphs based on your data.
  * The graphs should be annotated including:
    * Title
    * Labeled axes
    * Labeled data / legend if needed.
  * You should include at least 1 style of graph not covered in the lessons.
  * The graphs should convey what you found interesting about your data.

* __Submission__
  * You should have:
    * 1 python file.
      * PUT THE NAME(S) OF ANYONE THAT WORKED ON THIS PROJECT AS A COMMENT AT THE VERY TOP!
    * 1 or more data files.
  * Create a .zip or .tar archive with your files, upload that to the homework server.
  * Everyone must submit a file, even if you worked with a partner.
