---
layout: post
title:  "Work 32"
due: "Tuesday 05/12 10:00am"
sub_name: "upload to moe!"
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

#### Due: {{ page.due }}

#### Submission name: {{ page.sub_name }}
<!--more-->

This morning you should have recieved an email with login information to the new StuyCS web server we'll be using. Your account is brand new, and will not have any of the files from your school based accounts. We need to set up our accounts to work with the web server, so perform these steps:

#### 1. ssh into the webserver (moe.stuy.edu).
* On mac or linux computers:
  * Open the __terminal__ program and type `$ ssh USERNAME@moe.stuy.edu` at the command prompt. Replace USERNAME with your username.
* On windows:
  * Open either the __command prompt__ or __powershell__ programs (powershell is default installed on windos 10). Enter the same ssh command listed above.
  * _Or_ you could use the program __putty__ (link on the main page) to ssh in. But the Windows basedd ssh program is fine.

#### 2. Change your password
* `$ passwd`, hit enter and follow the instructions.
* Log out (`$ exit`), and ssh back in to verify you changed your password.

#### 3. Create a `public_html` directory.

#### 4. Recreate the webpage you made for assignment 05, it should be home.html. To do this, you have a few options:
* Open the website on homer.stuy.edu in a web browser, view the source and make a new file on moe.
* Transfer the file using an ftp program like filezilla, or using the command line utility scp.
  * Using scp: `$ scp USERNAME@SERVER:FILE DESTINATION` e.g. `$ scp dw@homer.stuy.edu:public_html/home.html public_html/`
  * You can access scp via the terminal on ,ac/linux or the coomand prompt or powershell on windows.
* Your website should be visible at the url: http://moe.stuy.edu/~USERNAME/home.html
