---
layout: post
title:  "Work 36: inQUERY"
due: "Wednesday 5/27 10:00 am"
sub_name: "query & upload to moe: query.py"
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

#### Due: {{ page.due }}

#### Submission name: {{ page.sub_name }}

<!--more-->

Write a python program similar to the randompop.py assignment (Work 34). This time, the program should get a year via a query string and display the population data for that year.
* The name for the year parameter should be __year__.
* Example url with working query string: <http://moe.stuy.edu/~dw/query.py?year=1860>
* If the year is not provided, then the page should display a message denoting to include the year. Example: <http://moe.stuy.edu/~dw/query.py>
* If the provided year does not have any data, display a message saying so. Example: <http://moe.stuy.edu/~dw/query.py?year=1804>
* You should upload your file to moe as query.py, and submit it on the homework server.

_Mr. DW, is there any way to test query string stuff via the command line? I'd love to be able to test without having to upload to moe every time I catch a little mistake?_
* I'm glad you asked, turns out python is aware of this problem and has a solution so simple it doesn't feel right. You can provide query string data directly via the command line!
  * Example:
  ```
  $ ./query.py year=1970
  ```
  * Note that you are not actually providing a query string, just names and values. If you want to supply multiple pieces of data you separate them with a space instead of `&`.

Since the main point of this assignment is to work with query string data, here are a couple of functions that you may find helpful for processing the data.
  ```
  def get_data(s):
    lines = s.split('\n')
    lines.pop(0)
    data = {}
    for line in lines:
        line = line.split(',')
        data[line[0]] = line[1:]
        data[line[0]].append( str(row_total(line[1:])))
    return data

  def row_total(row):
    total = 0
    for d in row:
        total+= int(d)
    return total
  ```
