---
layout: post
title:  "Test Yourself II"
due_45: "Tuesday 4/13 8:00 am"
due_9: "Tuesday 4/13 8:00 am"
sub_name: "python_test"
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

#### Due (period 4/5): {{ page.due_45 }}
#### Due (period 9): {{ page.due_9 }}

#### Submission name: {{ page.sub_name }}
<!--more-->

# Make a Python Unit Test
* Logistical Details
  - This is an individual assignment.
  - You should upload your submission to the homework server as a __pdf__ file.
  - The top line of the document should be your name and class period.
  - There should be 6-10 questions, with at least 4 functions to write.
    - __DO NOT__ create multiple choice questions.
    - Possible question ideas:
      - Write functions
      - Perfrom programming tasks that require one line of code.
      - Describe what a provided function does
      - Fix code
      - Provide incomplete code to be filled in
  - You must include an answer key __after__ each question.
  - You do not need to worry about assigning points to questions.
* General suggestions
  - Don’t test the same skill/concept at the same level of difficulty more than once.
  - One or two easy questions (or easy multi-part questions) are good to start with, so that your students do not panic (initially).
  - Creative questions make the test more human (a not-well-defined idea).
  - A challenge or bonus problem is a good idea, to help those students making inadvertent mistakes on previous problems.
  - Do not ask to write fucntions that have already been done in class group work or for homework. Similar questions are acceptable.
* What should be covered
  - Skills
    - Good coding practices
    - Understanding python code
    - Writing functions
* Topics within the python section (you do not need to cover everything)
  - Basic arithmetic functions (including sqrt, expt, abs)
  - Creating functions
  - Boolean values & functions
  - if, elif, else
  - working with strings
    - indexing, slicing
    - ord and chr
  - while loops
