---
layout: post
title:  "Work 02: Setting Your Sites High"
due: "Wednesday - Thursday 2/24 - 2/25 8am"
sub_name0: "site"
sub_name1: "css"
html_name: "site.html"
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

#### Due: {{ page.due }}

#### Submission name: {{ page.sub_name0 }}
#### Submission name: {{ page.sub_name1 }}
#### html file name: {{ page.html_name }}

<!--more-->

### Import Notes
* You do not need to work on adding more content for each page.
* Focus on using css to modify layout, specifically for the navigational menu.
* Please leave your __subject.html__ file alone, note this should be called __site.html__
* This assignment will be the basis for a larger project to be described in full ocne we return from break.

You're going to turn your subject.html page into a larger web site! At a minimum, your site should have the following files:
  * A main landing page: __site.html__
    - This page should explain what your site is about.
  * A page for each section from your original subject.html page
    - This means you should have at least 3 such pages.
  * A single css file used by all your pages.
  * The list at the beginning of yout subject.html page should turn into a horizontal or vertical menu where each list item is a link to the respective page.
    - The navigational menu should also contain a link to the main landing page.

Your entire site should be visible on the web via github pages. You should submit 2 files to the homework server in their respective slots:
  * Your site.html
  * You css file.

You will want to go back over the HTML and CSS links from the previous 2 assignments. You may also find the following resources helpful:
  * [CSS Box model](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/CSS/Building_blocks/The_box_model)
  * [CSS layouts](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/CSS/CSS_layout/Introduction)
