---
layout: post
title:  "Expanding our Knowledge"
due: "Monday 3/1 8am"
sub_name0: "full_site"
html_name: "site.html"
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

#### Due: {{ page.due }}

#### Submission name: {{ page.sub_name0 }}
#### Submission name: {{ page.sub_name1 }}
#### html file name: {{ page.html_name }}

<!--more-->
## Project Details
  * This is an extension of work02.
    - If you would prefer to change the subject of this website, you may.
  * You're going to turn your subject.html page into a larger web site! At a minimum, your site should have the following files:
    * A main landing page: __site.html__
      - This page should explain what your site is about, a general overview of the subject.
    * A page for each section from your original subject.html page
      - This means you should have at least 3 such pages.
      - You should add more detail to each section.
    * A single css file used by all your pages.
    * The list at the beginning of yout subject.html page should turn into a horizontal or vertical menu where each list item is a link to the respective page.
      - You should encase this in a [nav element](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/nav).
      - The position, layout, coloringetc of the menu should be all done using css.
      - The navigational menu should indicate in some way what page is currently being viewed.
      - The navigational menu should also contain a link to the main landing page.
    * You will be evaluated on the following:
      - Technical aspects (apporirate use of html and css, correct submission and publishing via).
      - Styling
      - Content
    * You must be the author of all the content, html and css for your website. You cannot use any web authoring tools thatt automatically generate html or css code.
    * Do not include any javascript.

Your entire site should be visible on the web via github pages at `https://<USERNAME>.github.io/web/site.html`. You should also create a zip file that includes all your html pages, your css and any local images. That will be your HW server submission for this project.


You will want to go back over the HTML and CSS links from the previous 2 assignments. You may also find the following resources helpful:
  * [CSS Box model](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/CSS/Building_blocks/The_box_model)
  * [CSS layouts](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/CSS/CSS_layout/Introduction)
