---
layout: post
title:  "Work 04: Conditional Agreements"
due_45: "Thursday 3/4 8:00 am"
due_9: "Friday 3/5 8:00 am"
sub_name: "if"
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

#### Due (period 4/5): {{ page.due_45 }}
#### Due (period 9): {{ page.due_9 }}

#### Submission name: {{ page.sub_name }}
<!--more-->

## Important note!
  * You should have some of these functions completed from your classwork.
  * Regardless of how many you completed in class, include all the functions in your hw assignment.
  * For the boolean related functions, do not use anything we have yet to cover in class.

 # Write the following functions in python.
 * `closerNumber`
   - Has 3 numbers as inputs (let's call them a, b and c).
   - Returns a if it is "closer" to c than b is to c.
   - Returns b if it is "closer" to c than a is to c.
   - Returns b if it and a "equidistant" from c.
   - By closeness we are referring to the distance between 2 numbers on a number line.
     - The distance between 16 and 10 is 6
     - The distance between 7 and 10 is 3
     - 7 is closer to 10 than 16
   - Examples:
     - `(closerNumber 7 16 10) ==> 7`
     - `(closerNumber 16 7 10) ==> 7`
     - `(closerNumber -5 8 0) ==> -5`

 * `closerPoint`
   - Takes 6 inputs, each pair of inputs represents the (x, y) coordinates of a point on the cartesian plane.
     - Assume the order is `(x0 y0 x1 y1 x2 y2)`
   - Returns the string `"0 is closer to 2"` if the first point is closer to the third than the second is to the third.
   - Returns the string `"1 is closer to 2"` if the second point is closer to the third than the first is to the third.
   - Returns the string`"0 and 1 are equidistant to 2"` if the first and second poitns are equidistant from the third
   - Use the distance function from the previous assignment to help here.
   - Examples:
     - `(closerPoint 4 0 10 0 0 0) ==> "0 is closer to 2"`
     - `(closerPoint 9 0 0 -3 0 0) ==> "1 is closer to 2"`

 * `militaryTime`
   - Takes 2 inputs.
     - The first represents an hour in 12-hour format.
     - The second will be 0 if the hour is AM or 1 (or any other number) if the hour is PM.
   - Should return the correct hour in 24-hour format (i.e. 1am = 1, 12am = 0, 1pm = 13, 4pm = 16 ...)
   - Examples:
     - `(militaryTime 3 0) ==> 3`
     - `(militaryTime 3 1) ==> 15`
     - `(militaryTime 12 0) ==> 0`
     - `(militaryTime 12 1) ==> 12`

 * `salePrice`
- Takes 2 inputs, the first represents the original price of an item, the second represents the number of weeks it has been on sale.
- Returns the current price of the item based on how many weeks it has been on sale.
  - Items on sale for 0 weeks will cost the full amount
  - Items on sale for 1 week will cost 75% of the full amount
  - Items on sale for 2 weeks will cost 50% of the full amount
  - Items on sale for 3 or more weeks will cost 25% of the full amount.
- Examples
     ```
    (salePrice 200 0) ==> 200
    (salePrice 200 1) ==> 150
    (salePrice 200 2) ==> 100
    (salePrice 200 3) ==> 50
    ```
 * `isLeapYear`
* Takes a single input representing a year.
* Returns `true` if the year is a leap year, and `false` if it is not.
* The rules for leap year-ness are as follows
  - Years that are divisible by 4 are leap years, except:
  - Years that are divisible by 100 are not leap years except:
  - Years that are divisible by 400 are leap years.
* Examples
  - ```
    (isLeapYear 2012) ==> #t
    (isLeapYear 1900) ==> #f
    (isLeapYear 2000) ==> #t
    (isLeapYear 1983) ==> #f
    ```
In case you don't believe me about the leap year rules: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Leap_year
