---
layout: post
title:  "Python: The Final Project"
due_45: " 8:00 am"
due_9: "  8:00 am"
sub_name: "multiple submissions"
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

#### Due (period 4/5): {{ page.due_45 }}
#### Due (period 9): {{ page.due_9 }}

#### Submission name: {{ page.sub_name }}
<!--more-->

### Final Project Dates:
* __June 01, 10:00am__
  - HW server slot: __prototype__
  * [Prototypes](#prototype) submission due, same day for all classes.
* __June 07, 10:00am__
  * HW server Project slot 0 due.
  * If your project contains multiple files, combine them into a single .zip or .tar file (not .rar!).
  * If you are working with partners, it's easiest for everyone if you both upload the assignment.
* More dates to follow


### Project Overview
* You (and possibly one or two partners) are tasked with creating a python program that demonstrates your ability to use the tools covered in class this semester:
  * Using HTML and CSS to present information as a web page.
  * Working with strings in python.
  * Using data structures in python (lists and dictionaries).
  * Reading files into python programs as data.
  * Analyzing data.
  * Using recursion to solve problems.
  * Using turtles in python.
  * Creating graphs & charts in matplotlib.
* Final Projects must contain the following pieces:
  * At least one python program file.
  * Substantive usage of lists and/or dictionaries.
  * Substantive use of strings.
  * Reading and/or writing to one or more files through a python program.
    - This could also be satisfied by having a python program use a webpage as input.
  * A webpage that uses HTML and CSS
    - At a minimum, each project should have a webpage, hosted on github, that expalins the purpose of the project. It is possible that the website itself is the end product of the python program.
* If you want to use a python library not covered in class, you must demonstrate a general understanding of what it does, how you will use it, and why you need it before moving forward with your project.
* Some of the other intro teachers have covered using python to generate a webpage on a web server. This is not possible using github pages. I will discuss this in class, but not with enough time for you to use it in your projects. If this is something of major interest to you, then you need to discuss it with me ASAP.


### Project Guidelines:
* Your project should focus on the technologies covered in class.
* This means python, html and css not, for example, javascript.
* Your grade will depend on several factors beyond the actual project:
  * Your prototype/documentation/submissions
  * Consistent work throughout the allotted time. (The procrastination penalty)
  * You should try to get the minimum requirements done early.
  * It is ok if someone goes above and beyond, as long as the other partner contributes a substantial amount. It is NOT ok if one partner does most of the work, and the other does very little.


### Prototype:
* Create a single PDF of your prototype and submit it under the **final_prototype** slot on the HW server.
* Page(s) 0-1:
  * Top: Name(s) of all involved, class period, team name, project name
  * Section 0
    * High level description of your project.
    * What is it? Why do you want to make it? How will it work?
  * Section 1
    * Template sketch(es)
    * What will the web page(s) look like?
    * You may need to provide multiple sketches to show the full design. Thats ok.
    * Are you generating graphs or other diagrams? What will they look like?
* Page 2-3
  * Sources of information
    * Will you be using data or formulae, if so, where is that coming from?
    * Are you using new python modules? Some kind of API? If so, provide the documentation source for that.
    * Task breakdown
      * Who will be doing what
    * Development stages
      * timeline of features to be added, prioritized by importance and feasibility.
      * It is ok to fall behind schedule.
      * It is OK to modify this.
* NO CODE: Until you hand in the prototype there should be absolutely NO CODE! This is a design process.
* Grade: This will be 20% of your final project grade. It should look like you put serious effort into it.
  * Take time to draw what you want to show.
  * Use a ruler for straight edges! This makes it look much better. (No ruler = you didn't care)
* The purpose of the document is to:
  * Come together with your partner and make a clear picture of what you BOTH want to do.
  * Explicitly describe the behavior of your project so I can tell you if there are potential problems.
  * Make clear expectations public so you have guidelines to follow and don't cut features for no reason.
* Evolving document:
  * You may ADD to it, but do NOT remove old pages.
  * You may mark sections as outdated, and that they are replaced later.
  * The goal is to see the evolution of your project over its creation.
