---
layout: post
title:  "Work 20: Model Behavior"
due_45: "Tuesday 5/17 8:00 am"
due_9: "Wednesday 5/18 8:00 am"
sub_name: "markov_full"
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

#### Due (period 4/5): {{ page.due_45 }}
#### Due (period 9): {{ page.due_9 }}

#### Submission name: {{ page.sub_name }}
<!--more-->

**NEW** When you submit, please include the amount of time you spent on the assignment outside of class as a comment to the submission (not in the python file). If you completed it in class enter "finished in class" as your comment.

# Produce a full markov chain based text generation program. Include:
* Previous assignments
  - `make_markov_dict` (you can find a working version on the solutions github site)
  - `generate_text`
* New Additions
  - `prepare_text`
    * Take as a parameter a string containing the entire content of a file downloaded from [project gutenberg](https://www.gutenberg.org)
    * Return a new string containing the parameter's contents, better formatted for our markv chain text generator.
    * It should perform (at least) one modification to the original text.
    * Possible ideas:
      - Automatically remove the leagal header and footer information (they have common patterns that state when each is stareting/ending).
      - Removing extra whitespace from the start and end (of the whole text, of each line...). Investigate `s.strip()` in python.
      - Remove chapter, section markings.
        - This is more difficult than the legal header/footer information
      - Generally, remove other non sentence data
        - If you're using shakespeare's work, you could strip out the Act and scene headings, or stage directions ... (though maybe you want those)
  - The entire python file, when run, should read in (at least) one book (plain text downloaded from project gutenberg), generate a markov model, and then generate 100 word piece of text.
