---
layout: post
title:  "Work 16: Cut it Out"
due: "Wednesday 3/20 10:00 am"
sub_name: "w16_slice.py"
html_name: ""
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

#### Due: {{ page.due }}
#### Submission Name: {{ page.sub_name }}

#### Write the following python functions using STRING SLICING
Do not use any loops in these functions. Instead, use string slicing to solve each.
* `split_name`
  * Takes a string representing a name as a parameter. Assume the string has a first and last name, separated by spaces, like `"Eddie Vedder"`
  * Should __return__ a string with each part of the name on its own line
  * Example:
    ```
    >>> print(split_name("John Shaft"))
    John
    Shaft
    ```
* `bondify`
  * Names sound cooler the way James Bond says them ("Bond... James Bond"), so we'll write a python program to do that!
  * Takes a single parameter representing a name, the same format as splitName.
  * Should return a new string with the input name written Bond style.
  * Example: `bondify("Mr DW") ==> "DW... Mr DW"`

* `find_last`
  * Takes 2 parameters, one representing a string and the second representing a character.
  * Returns the index of the last occurrence of the character in the string, or -1 if the character is not in the string.
  * Examples
    ```
    find_last( 'hello', 'l') ==> 3
    find_last('hello', 'h') ==> 0
    find_last('hello', 'z') ==> -1
    ```

* `replace`
  * This function will take a string and replace part of it with something new
  * Takes 3 string parameters, The first represents the original string, the second represents the part you want to take out (key), and the last represents the replacement string.
  * Returns a new string that is a copy of the original except that the replacement string is located where the key use to be.
  * If the key is not in the original string, you should return the original, unmodified.
  * the `.find()` method will work with multi-character strings.
  * Example: `replace("I hate cs!", "hate", "love") ==> "I love cs!"`
