---
layout: post
title:  "Project 00: Further Enlightenment'"
due: "Tuesday 2/27 10:00am"
sub_name: "See below for instructions"
html_name: ""
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

#### Due: {{ page.due }}
#### Submission Name: {{ page.sub_name }}
<!--
#### Stuy server link: http://homer.stuy.edu/~YOUR_USERNAME/{{ page.sub_name }}
-->
Sample of different CSS styles and site layout: <http://homer.stuy.edu/~jadw/site/>

#### Project Overview
* This is an extension of w05_subject.
  - If you would prefer to change the subject of this website, you may.
* You're going to turn your subject specific page into a larger web site! At a minimum, your site should have the following files:
  - A main landing page:
    - This page should explain what your site is about, a general overview of the subject.
  - A page for each section from your original subject page
    - This means you should have at least 3 such pages.
    - You should add more detail to each section.
  - A single css file used by all your pages.

#### Implementation Specifics
* The list at the beginning of your subject html page should turn into a horizontal or vertical menu where each list item is a link to the respective page.
  - You should put this list inside a [nav element](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/nav).
  - The position, layout, coloring etc of the menu should be all done using css.
  - The navigational menu should indicate in some way what page is currently being viewed.
  - The navigational menu should also contain a link to the main landing page.
* All image sources should be image files instead of links.
* The entire project (html files, css, images) should be in a subfolder of your `public_html` folder called `site`. With the following required parts:
  - `index.html`: The main landing page for your site.
  - All other html files, and your css file.
  - `images/`: a further subfolder containing all the image files used by your site.
  - Here is an example of what the structure of your site folder should look like:
  ```
  ~/public_html dw$ tree site/
  site/
  ├── images
  │   ├── img0.png
  │   ├── img1.jpg
  │   ├── img2.png
  │   └── img3.gif
  ├── index.html
  ├── mystyle.css
  ├── p0.html
  ├── p1.html
  └── p2.html
  ```

#### Evaluation
You will be evaluated on the following:
- Technical aspects
  - appropriate use of html and css
  - correct directory structure
  - correct use of public_html for publication as well as placemen tin your GitHUb repository.
- Styling
- Content
- You must be the author of all the content, html and css for your website. You cannot use any web authoring tools that automatically generate html or css code.
-  Do not include any javascript.

#### Further Resources
You will want to go back over the HTML and CSS links from the previous 2 assignments. You may also find the following resources helpful:
  * [CSS Box model](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/CSS/Building_blocks/The_box_model)
  * [CSS layouts](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/CSS/CSS_layout/Introduction)
