---
layout: post
title:  "Project 01: Fractal Function Flaunting"
due: "Friday 4/19 10:00 am"
sub_name: "gh classroom Link"
html_name: ""
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

#### Due: {{ page.due }}
#### GH Classroom Links:
* Period 9: <https://classroom.github.com/a/vw9pcRVy>
* Period 10: <https://classroom.github.com/a/306jZ6DU>


#### Fractal Function Flair
You will demonstrate your understanding of fractals by creating various of the three fractals we have made in class, and creating a webpage to share your work.

#### Fractal Functions (python)
You will have a single python program with (at least) 6 functions:
- 3 functions will be the standard versions of the fractals we made last week (koch curve, sierpinski triangle, tree).
- You will make a modified version of each fractal. A modified version means that something should change as the depth decreases. Here are some options to consider (though you may try others as well):
  - Changing the length of the lines.
  - Changing the width of the lines.
  - Changing the color of the lines.
  - Changing the angles used.
  - Adding/removing lines.
  - Adding/removing recursive steps.
- Each modified version should have at least 2 modifications.
- Amongst all your modifications, at least 2 should involve randomness.
- You can also have extra functions if needed (like `triangle`).

#### Showing Off (HTML/CSS)
You will create a webpage to show off your fractals. Your page should have 3 sections, 1 for each fractal. Each section should include:
- A picture of an example of the standard version of the fractal:
  -  `koch_curve(t, 6, 100)`
  -  `sierpinski(t, 5, 200)`
  -  `tree(t, 4, 50, 20)`
- An explanation of your modified version.
- A picture of an example of your modified version.
- The code for your modified version.
  - In HTML `<code>` is an [inline element used to represent code](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/code). If you want to include multiple lines of code into a block element, you can put the `<code>` element inside a `<pre>` element. like this:

  ```
  <pre><code>
      def foo(x):
          return x**7
  </code></pre>
  ```

- You should have some amount of custom CSS styling. But make sure the style does not get in the way of the page itself.
- You can see a simple example (with no CSS) here: <http://homer.stuy.edu/~jadw/fractals.html>

#### Submission
- For this assignment you should have the following files:
  - __fractals.py__: The python program with all your code.
  - __fractals.html__: The HTML for your web page.
  - __fractals.css__: The CSS for your web page.
- Include these three files in the github classroom repository for this assignment (links above).
- Add __fractals.html__, __fractals.css__ and the image files to your __public_html__ directory so that your fractal webpage is publicly viewable.
