---
layout: post
title:  "Work 01: Highway to the Danger Zone"
due: "Monday 2/03 10:00 am"
sub_name: ""
html_name: ""
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

#### Due: {{ page.due }}

Unfortunately, I will be out today, but have no fear! You can continue getting used to the command line by following theses easy steps:

1. Open up the terminal on your computer.
  - If you're at home, you can do the following to get a terminal:
   - MacOS: You should already have a program called `terminal`, search for it on your computer and open it. It will look very much like the terminal program on the school computers.
   - Windows: Download and install [gitbash](https://gitforwindows.org/). It will provide you with a program that will also work very much like the terminal on the school computers.
   - ChromeOS (I only just discovered this and have not tested it out yet). Looks like you can enable a terminal if you follow the instructions here: <https://chromeos.dev/en/productivity/terminal>
2. Read the first two chapters (~~Basics~~ and ~~Manipulating Files~~) in [Learn Enough Command Line to Be Dangerous](https://www.learnenough.com/command-line-tutorial). As you read you will learn about a number of command line features and utilities, some of which you used while playing bashcrawl. Try things out! If you feel like you've ended up in a strange place in the terminal you can always try the following:
   - `$ cd`: This will change you into your home directory, useful if you run `cd` too many times and you don't know where you are anymore.
   - CTRL-c: This should immediately quit the current active command, useful if it seems like the terminal is no longer responding.
   - Quit the terminal program: If all else fails, start anew!
