---
layout: post
title:  "Work 34: A Web of Snakes"
due: "Wednesday 5/21 10:00am"
sub_name: "w38_rand.py"
html_name: ""
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

#### Due: {{ page.due }}
#### Submission Name: {{ page.sub_name }}


#### Python Web Setup
You will do this work in your `public_html` directory. Follow these steps. If at any point a step fails, DO NOT KEEP GOING. Stop, figure out what went wrong, fix it, verify you fixed it, then move on.
1. Open a terminal, move into your public_html directory: `$ cd public_html`
2. Create a new folder for your python web programs: `$ mkdir py`
3. Create an empty file (we'll add to this later): `$ touch py/w38_rand.py`
4. Keep this terminal window open.

From now on, any python web programs you write should be in `public_html/py/`, the directory you just made.

#### Create a Python Program in Thonny
1. Open the `w38_rand.py` file you created in step 3 above in Thonny.

3. Have the program print out some text and a random number.
4. **TEST** the program in the Thonny shell.

#### Make your Program Command Line Friendly
1. In the terminal window that you kept open, change into the `py` directory: `$ cd py`
2. **TEST** that your program works in the terminal by manually invoking python:
   - `$ python w38_rand.py`
3. Add the _shbang_ line to the beginning (line 1) of your program:
  - `#!/usr/bin/python`
4. Give your program execute permissions: `$ chmod +x w38_rand.py`
5. **TEST** that your program works without manually invoking python: `$ ./w38_rand.py`

#### Make your Program Web Friendly:
1. Add the media type header as the first output of your program (line 2)
  - `print('Content-type: text/html\n')`
2. Test that your program works in a web browser by visiting __homer.stuy.edu/~USERNAME/py/w38_rand.py__

#### HTML!
If you've gotten this far and have time, modify your program so that it produces valid HTML
