---
layout: post
title:  "Project 01: The Final Frontier"
due: "multiple due dates"
sub_name: "gh classroom Link"
html_name: ""
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

#### Due: {{ page.due }}
#### GH Classroom Links:
* Period 9: <>
* Period 10: <>

#### Project Timeline:
- 5/27: Project assigned, ideation commences.
- 5/30 10:00am: Proposal Due
- 6/06 10:00am: Version 0 in GitHub repository.
- 6/16 10:00am: Final version done.
  - Project in both github repository and public_html

<!-- #### Final Checklist
- All code and data files in final project repository.
- `public_html/final/` correctly linked to your final project repository.
- `index.html` file created with:
  - Name of project
  - Name(s) of project authors
  - Class period
  - Description of project
  - Link to working project
- `http://homer.stuy.edu/~USERNAME/final/` correctly loads your `index.html` file.

#### Publishing Instructions:
We are going to clone our projects inside our `public_html` directories on the school computers (but not on github), into a directory called `final`. Normally, putting a repository inside another repository can be complicated, but we are going to tell git to ignore the `final` repository while only inside `public_html`. Once done, we do all our final project work inside the `final` directory, including git commits, pulls and pushes. Your project should be accessible via: `http://homer.stuy.edu/~USERNAME/final/`

1. Open a new terminal window.
2. Change into your public_html directory
  - `~$ cd public_html`
3. Clone your final project repository into your public_html directory. Name the cloned directory __final__.
  - `~public_html$ git clone YOUR_SSH_REPO_LINK final`
  - Now `final` will be a directory inside `public_html`
4. Make sure that git does not consider `final` to be part of `public_html`
   - `~public_html$ cat >> .gitignore`: then hit enter
   - `final`: then hit enter, followed by control-d
   - This will create (or append to) a file called `.gitignore`, which tells git to ignore any file(s) in that list. We then put `final` in `.gitignore`.
5. Add `.gitignore` to your public_html, then commit and push:
   - First, make sure `public_html` is current: `public_html$ git pull`
     - If any errors appear, fix those before moving on.
   - Then, add `.gitignore`: `public_html$ git add .gitignore`
   - Then, commit: `public_html$ git commit -am "+gitignore"`
   - Then, push: `public_html$ git push` -->


#### Project Overview
You (and possibly one or two partners from the same class) are tasked with creating a python program that demonstrates your ability to use the tools covered in class this semester, __and__ understand how to incorporate new tools into your toolbox. As such, each project must contain one of the following two features:
* Using the [matplotlib library](https://matplotlib.org/stable/) to produce graphs and/or charts.
  - Here are some notes on matplotlib: <https://www.stuycs.org/dwlessons/fcs/selector_view.html?slides=25_matplotlib.md#2>
  - This is a demo program that generates a graph using matplotlib and builds a webpage that includes the graph: <https://github.com/mks22-dw/thesource/tree/main/python_web/plot>
  - You can test this program here: <http://homer.stuy.edu/~jadw/py/plot/plot.py>
* Using python to process input from the web, including using forms and query strings.
  - Here are some notes on HTML forms: <https://www.stuycs.org/dwlessons/fcs/selector_view.html?slides=26_forms.md#2>
  - Check out [here](http://homer.stuy.edu/~jadw/py/hello.html) for a live example, and [hello.html and hello.py](https://github.com/mks22-dw/thesource/tree/main/python_web) for the associated code.
  - [This code](https://github.com/mks22-dw/thesource/blob/main/python_web/dynaform.py) is very similar to the example above, but it does not have a separate HTML file, instead the initial form and the resulting web page are generated by the same python program. You can see a live version of the page [here](http://homer.stuy.edu/~jadw/py/dynaform.py)

Here is a list of topics we have covered, many of which should be part of your project.
* Using HTML and CSS to present information as a web page.
* Working with strings in python.
* Using data structures in python (lists and dictionaries).
* Reading files into python programs as data.
* Analyzing data.
* Using recursion to solve problems.
* Using turtles in python.

#### Technical Requirements
In addition to the incorporation of a new tool, final Projects must contain the following pieces:
* At least one python program file that produces a valid web page.
* Substantive usage of lists and/or dictionaries.
* Substantive use of strings.
* Reading one or more files through a python program.
* A webpage that uses HTML and CSS
  - At a minimum, each project should have a webpage, that explains the purpose of the project. This is in addition to the program that generates a web page.

#### Viable Project Ideas
These are just some ideas to get you started, you do not need to pick one of these, but you are welcome to do so.
* Data Analysis
  * Find some data, read it into your program, process it and display your results as a webpage.
  * You can invest your time and energy in different areas:
    * Data gathering
      * Get multiple pieces of related data (books, songs, player/team sports statistics, etc). Clean the data and allow users to select from different data sets.
    * Data analysis
      * Perform more advanced statistical analysis of the data.
    * Data Presentation/Visualization
      * Show your data in an interesting/novel way.
    * Searchable Database
      * Instead of focusing on analyzing data, create a website that makes it easy to view and search from a large dataset.
* Random website generator
  - Use a markov chain (or perhaps other related technology), to generate random text.
  - Make an entire website, as opposed to simply printing out random text.
  - Possible ideas in this space:
    - Allow a user to select a "style" of source.
    - Generate random wikipeida-style pages.
* Online form generator
  * Create a simple language for users to generate their own online forms.
  * Example format: Type of question, question text, answer options (if applicable).
  * Your program could either generate the html for the form based on a text file or web form based input.
* Choose-your-own-adventure generator
  * Similar to the form generator, this would take in (either vie a web form or text file) a choose your own adventure story, broken into pieces with choices that link to other specific sections.
  * Your program would then generate all the webpages to make the story functional.

#### Further Guidelines:
* Your project should focus on the technologies covered in class (and matplotlib or html forms).
  - This means python, html and css not, for example, javascript.
* You should try to get the minimum requirements done early.
* It is ok if someone goes above and beyond, as long as the other partner contributes a substantial amount. It is NOT ok if one partner does most of the work, and the other does very little.
