---
layout: post
title:  "Work 15: Make like a banana and split"
due_45: "Monday 5/3 8:00 am"
due_9: "Tuesday 5/4 8:00 am"
sub_name: "split"
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

#### Due (period 4/5): {{ page.due_45 }}
#### Due (period 9): {{ page.due_9 }}

#### Submission name: {{ page.sub_name }}
<!--more-->

**NEW** When you submit, please include the amount of time you spent on the assignment outside of class as a comment to the submission (not in the python file). If you completed it in class enter "finished in class" as your comment.

# Write the following python functions
* `get_values`
  * This fucntion will take a string containing numbers and return a list where each value is a number from the string, but represented as a number, not a string.
  * exmaple:
    - `get_values('90 99 97 89')` ==> `[90, 99, 97, 89]`

* `get_vals_list`
  * This function will take a string with numbers, spaces, and newlines like this:
    ```
    s = """90 99 97 89
    91 94 99 89
    81 94 100 100
    90 99 79 81
    50 79 49 41
    90 99 94 94"""
    ```
  * It should return a list of lists, where each sublist corresponds to a line in the original string, and each value is an number represented as a number, not a string.
  * example
    `gat_vals_list(s)` ==>
      ```
      [[90, 99, 97, 89],
      [91, 94, 99, 89],
      [81, 94, 100, 100],
      [90, 99, 79, 81],
      [50, 79, 49, 41],
      [90, 99, 94, 94]]
      ```
* `get_averages`
  * This function will take a list of lists of numbers (like what `get_vals_list` returns) and return a list of averages for each sublist.
  * protip: there is a function `sum(g)` that will return the sum of the elements in `g`, as long as `g` only contains numbers.
  * example
    `get_averages(get_vals_list(s))` ==> `[93.75, 93.25, 93.75, 87.25, 54.75, 94.25]`

* `numlist_to_string`
  * This function will take a list of numbers, and return an string where each value is separated by a comma.
  * example
    `numlist_to_string([90, 99, 97, 89])` ==> `'90,99,97,89'`

* `combine_data`
  * This function will take a string formatted like `s` above.
  * Will return a string where the values for each line are separated by `,` followed by a `:` and the averages value for that line.
  * example
    `print(combine_data(s))` ==>
      ```
      90,99,97,89: 93.75
      91,94,99,89: 93.25
      81,94,100,100: 93.75
      90,99,79,81: 87.25
      50,79,49,41: 54.75
      90,99,94,94: 94.25
      ```
