---
layout: post
title:  "Work 19: Predictive Text"
due_45: "Friday 5/14 8:00 am"
due_9: "Monday 5/17 8:00 am"
sub_name: "generate"
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

#### Due (period 4/5): {{ page.due_45 }}
#### Due (period 9): {{ page.due_9 }}

#### Submission name: {{ page.sub_name }}
<!--more-->

**NEW** When you submit, please include the amount of time you spent on the assignment outside of class as a comment to the submission (not in the python file). If you completed it in class enter "finished in class" as your comment.

To help with some of this, you may want to use the following function:
  * `random.choice(g)`: returns a randomly selected element from list.
    ```
    import random #at the top of your python file
    g = [5, 7, 19, 21]
    random.choice(g) # returns a random element from g
    ```

# Write the following python function:
* `generate_text`
  * Takes 2 parameters, a dictionary generated by `make_markov_dict`, and a number.
  * Generates a new piece of text, with the number of words provided as the second parameter, based on the provided dictionary.
    - Start with a randomly selected key
    - Start your new text with the key
      - Pick a random word from the list of possible words based on the selected key.
      - Add the new word to the generated text
      - Remove the first word from the key and add the new word at the end for the new key (don't forget the space between)
      - Repeat untill you have added the requested number of words.
    - Return the new text
  * If you get this working, you might want to try the following modifiction:
    - Change `make_markov_dict` so that in contains an extra parameter that will be used to set the number of words for each key.
    - Modify `generate_text` to account for different length keys, also with an extra parameter.
