---
layout: post
title:  "Work 38: A Web of Snakes"
due: "Wednesday 5/29 10:00 am"
sub_name: ""
html_name: ""
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

#### Due: {{ page.due }}
#### Submission Name: {{ page.sub_name }}


#### Python Web Setup
You will do this work in your `public_html` directory. Follow these steps. If at any point a step fails, DO NOT KEEP GOING. Stop, figure out what went wrong, fix it, verify you fixed it, then move on.
1. Open a terminal, move into your public_html directory: `$ cd public_html`
2. Just to be safe, pull any potential updates on github: `$ git pull`
3. Create a new folder for your python web programs: `$ mkdir py`
4. Create an empty file (we'll add to this later): `$ touch py/w38_rand.py`
5. Add the new directory and file to git: `$ git add py`
6. Commit the changes: `$ git commit -am "+ python web dir"`
7. Push your changes: `$ git push`
8. Keep this terminal window open.

From now on, any python web programs you write should be in `public_html/py/`, the directory you just made.

#### Create a Python Program
1. Open the `w38_rand.py` file you created in step 4 above in Thonny.
2. Put the two lines necessary for all our python web based programs:
  - `#!/usr/bin/python`
  - `print('Content-type: text/html\n')`
3. Have the program print out some text and a random number.
4. Test the program in the Thonny shell.

#### Make your Program Web-Friendly
1. In the terminal window that you kept open, change into the `py` directory: `$ cd py`
2. Test that your program works in the terminal by manually invoking python: `$ python w38_rand.py`
3. Give your program execute permissions: `$ chmod +x w38_rand.py`
4. Test that your program works without manually invoking python: `$ ./w38_rand.py`
5. Test that your program works in a web browser by visiting __homer.stuy.edu/~USERNAME/py/w38_rand.py__
6. Commit and push your changes:
   - `$ git commit -am "+ w38"`
   - `$ git push`

If you've gotten this far and have time, modify your program so that it produces valid HTML
