---
layout: post
title:  "Python Setup at Home"
due: ""
sub_name: ""
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

#### Due: {{ page.due }}

#### Submission name: {{ page.sub_name }}
<!--more-->

As I've said many times at this point, we will be using python to generate webpages, but in order to do so, we're going to need to leave the pleasant confines of Thonny and move to running python programs from the command line.We should still use Thonny for development, so it's not goodbye. Before we do anything special to our python programs, we need to make sure that python is working via the command line, and that we get to python3 by default. So today, you're going to need to take care of your home environment.

There is no assignment to submit today, you need to get python working, so I just want you to focus on this.

1. Create a very simple python program. It should be one line with a print statement. Something like:
   ```
   print('Good News Everyone!')
   ```
2. Thonny contains its own python installation, but you need to have python installed in a way that it can be accessed via the terminal/shell/powershel. Before you do anything check if this is already in place:
   * Open up __Terminal__ (on mac or linux computers) or __Powershell__ (on windows 10 or later computers), or __Command Prompt__ (on windows versions below 10).
   * Run the python command like so: `$ python`, you may see something like the following:
     ```
     $ python
     Python 3.6.9 (default, Apr 18 2020, 01:56:04)
     [GCC 4.2.1 (Apple Inc. build 5666) (dot 3)] on darwin
     Type "help", "copyright", "credits" or "license" for more information.
     >>>
     ```
   * The important information is the first line that says `Python 3.6.9 (default, Apr 18 2020, 01:56:04)`. If you see that, or something that at least starts with __Python 3__, then you are good to go, nive on to step 4.
   * If you see a line that starts with `Python 2`, then your system's default python is set to python 2, this will cause problems, you will need to address this in step 3.
   * If you get a message denoting that python is not installed, then you will install it, once again in step 3.
3. Install Python 3.
  * Whether you don't have any python isntalled, or have Python 2 installed, follow these instructions:
  * __Windows__
    * Download the python installer found [here](https://www.python.org/ftp/python/3.8.2/python-3.8.2-amd64.exe). This is the official release from the [python website](https://www.python.org/downloads/release/python-382/)
  * __Mac__
    * Things are a little trickier on a mac. It's highly likely that you have Python isntalled, but that it is verison 2.7. As a lifelong mac user, I can attest that there are lots of bad ways of installing python 3 on your computer. The following is what I have discovered to be the most straightforward with the fewest drawbacks (I've had no problems with it since using it starting in January).
    * Install [homebrew](https://brew.sh). This is a must have tool if you're interested in doing some programming on a mac. You can think of it like a terminal app store. You can use it to install other programs. Often it will allow you to install programs that were orginally designed for a linux environment.
    * Install __pyenv__ using homebrew:
      ```
      $ brew install pyenv
      ðŸº  /usr/local/Cellar/pyenv/1.2.10: 634 files, 2.4MB
      ```
    * Install python3 using pyenv:
      ```
      $ pyenv install 3.7.7
      python-build: use openssl 1.0 from homebrew
      python-build: use readline from homebrew
      Downloading Python-3.7.7.tar.xz...
      -> https://www.python.org/ftp/python/3.7.7/Python-3.7.7.tar.xz
      Installing Python-3.7.7...
      ```
    * Set the pyenv version to python3:
      ```
      $ pyenv global 3.7.3
      ```
    * Verify that worked:
      ```
      $ pyenv version
      3.7.7 (set by ...
      ```
    * Set your account to use pyenv's python when invoked from the shell:
      ```
      $ echo -e 'if command -v pyenv 1>/dev/null 2>&1; then\n  eval "$(pyenv init -)"\nfi' >> ~/.bash_profile

      ```
      * This one is a little tricky, depending on what shell your computer is running, you might need to replace `~/.bash_profile` with `~/.zshrc` at the end of the above command.
      * If you type `$ echo $0`, you should see either `-bash` or `zsh`, use the correct file depending on what you see there.
    * Quit terminal and open it back up, go to setp 2 to test your python version.
    * For reference, I've put these instrcutions together from [this website](https://opensource.com/article/19/5/python-3-default-mac). The first couple paragraphs exaplain the mac python problem, but then it gives examples of things you shouldn't do before getting to the instructions I've provided. If you are not careful and start with the first solution on that website, you'll be sorry.
4. Test your python program!
  * At this point, you should have python3 working as intended. Now test the program your wrote in Step 1.
    ```
    $ python hello.py
    Good News Everyone!
    ```
  * If this does not work, there's something wrong. At this point you should start talking to people on slack or on the QAF to get things in order.
