---
layout: post
title:  "Work 35"
due: "Friday 5/22 10:00 am"
sub_name: "upload to moe: page_maker.py"
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

#### Due: {{ page.due }}

#### Submission name: {{ page.sub_name }}

<!--more-->

There are many advantages to writing python programs that generate web pages, but, as you may have already discovered, some things are actually more difficult, or at least annoying, to do in python instead of in html. For example, writing out all the required html tags, or writing css styling code, is not great when you have to put it all in python strings. Ideally, we should be able to make python programs to do the stuff that's easier in python and html files to do the html stuff. Before going further, let's identify what's easier in both.
* Python web page strengths
  * Easy to generate repetitive tags like tables and lists.
  * Can create _dynamic_ content, that is content that is not the same every time the page is loaded (like the random population line in the previous assignment).
* HTML page strengths
  * Simple way to put together the main layout of a page.
  * Easy to include _static_ content, things that are always the same.
  * Easy to include styling information.

A better soltuion would be a hybrid, or best-of-both-worlds system. In such a system we would:
  * Write out the main html layout and styling information in a template html file.
  * Create a python program that would read in the template html file and then add content to it.
  * The python program would create the complete web page hosted by the webserver.

Your assignment is to create a basic system framwork. You will need:
1. An html template file.
  * Initially, keep it simple, start with something like [this](https://github.com/mks22-dw/python/blob/master/template.html){:target="_blank"}
  * Add a `<style>` tag to the head with some styling information.

2. A website-generating python program that uses the template.
  * Write a function `fill_tag(html, tag, content)`
    * This should return a string that is a copy of `html` except that the inside of `tag` is replaced with `content`.
    * `fill_tag(html, 'title', 'I am the best!')` would return whatever is in `html` but with `I am the best!` put inbetween `<title></title>`.
3. For the rest of the program:
  * Read in the template file.
  * Use the `fill_tag` function to insert a title.
  * Use the `fill_tag` function to insert some kind of random content that should change each time the page loads. For example, you could read in a [text file](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/mks22-dw/python/master/filler.txt) and select a few random lines.
4. Upload your python program and population data file to moe and test.
  * Not working? Why don't you check the [Python Website Checklist]({{"lessons/web_checklist.html" | relative_url}}){:target="_blank"}
5. Your web page should look something like this: <http://moe.stuy.edu/~dw/page_maker.py>{:target="_blank"}
